TPC-H queries (#19)
Bodo-inc/Bodo-examples: examples/tpch/README.md

# TPC-H Queries 

> TPC-H is a benchmark for business oriented ad-hoc queries that is used to simulate real questions and is usually used to benchmark performance of database tools for answering them.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
TPC-H is a benchmark suite for business-oriented ad-hoc queries that are used to simulate real questions and is usually used to benchmark the performance of database tools for answering them.
```

More information can be found [here](http://www.tpc.org/tpch/)

## Generating TPC-H Data in Parquet Format

### 1. Download and Install tpch-dbgen

```
    git clone https://github.com/Bodo-inc/tpch-dbgen
    cd tpch-dbgen
    make
    cd ../
```

### 2. Generate Data

Usage

```
usage: python generate_data_pq.py [-h] --folder FOLDER [--SF N] [--validate_dataset]

    -h, --help       Show this help message and exit
    folder FOLDER: output folder name (can be local folder or S3 bucket)
    SF N: data size number in GB (Default 1)
    validate_dataset: Validate each parquet dataset with pyarrow.parquet.ParquetDataset (Default True)
```
Example:

Generate 1GB data locally: 

`python generate_data_pq.py --SF 1 --folder SF1`

Generate 1TB data and upload to S3 bucket: 

`python generate_data_pq.py --SF 1000 --folder s3://bucket-name/`

NOTES:

> - Script assumes `tpch-dbgen` is in the same directory. If you downloaded it in another location, make sure to update `tpch_dbgen_location` in the script with new location.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This script assumes `tpch-dbgen` is in the same directory. If you downloaded it at another location, make sure to update `tpch_dbgen_location` in the script with the new location.
```

- If using S3 bucket, install `s3fs` and add your AWS credentials.

## Bodo

### Installation

Follow the intstructions [here](https://docs.bodo.ai/dev/source/install.html).

### Running queries

Use 

`mpiexec -n N python bodo_queries.py --folder folder_path`

```
usage: python bodo_queries.py [-h] --folder FOLDER

arguments:
  -h, --help       Show this help message and exit
  --folder FOLDER  The folder containing TPCH data

```
Example:

Run with 4 cores on a local data

`mpiexec -n 4 python bodo_queries.py --folder SF1`

Run with 288 cores on S3 bucket data

`mpiexec -n 288 python bodo_queries.py --folder s3://bucket-name/`

## Spark

### Installation

> Here, we show instructions for using PySpark with EMR cluster. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Here, we show the instructions for using PySpark with an EMR cluster. 
```

For other cluster configurations, please follow corresponding vendor's instructions.

> Follow steps outlined in "Launch an Amazon EMR cluster" section  of [AWS guide](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/emr/latest/ManagementGuide/emr-gs-launch-sample-cluster.html)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Follow the steps outlined in the "Launch an Amazon EMR cluster" section of the [AWS guide](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/emr/latest/ManagementGuide/emr-gs-launch-sample-cluster.html)
```

> In **Software configuration** step, make sure `Hadoop`, `Hive`, `JupyterEnterpriseGateway`, and `Spark` are selected.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the **Software configuration** step, select `Hadoop`, `Hive`, `JupyterEnterpriseGateway`, and `Spark`.
```

> In **Cluster Nodes and Instances** step, choose same instance type for both master and workers. Don't create any task instances. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the **Cluster Nodes and Instances** step, choose the same instance type for both master and workers. Don't create any task instances. 
```

### Running queries

> Attach [pyspark\_notebook.ipynb](./pyspark_notebook.ipynb) to your EMR cluster following the examples on [AWS documentation](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/emr/latest/ManagementGuide/emr-managed-notebooks-create.html)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Attach [pyspark\_notebook.ipynb](./pyspark_notebook.ipynb) to your EMR cluster following the examples in the [AWS documentation](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/emr/latest/ManagementGuide/emr-managed-notebooks-create.html)
```
